Tuesday, February 12, testing, testing, one,
two, three.
Testing some more, testing some more on the 12th of
February, testing.
Testing a second time, testing a second time on
February 12.
W.D. Schultz.
This is February 12, and we're in the heart of the
Evans Library now. In fact, inside what once was
the Engineering Library. I have the honor and
pleasure of recording the memories of W.D.
Scotes, that's S-C-O-A-T-E-S,
Bill Scotes to his many friends. Mr. Scotes, to
introduce you and your family to anybody that will
hear this tape or read the transcription,
describe your family, when they got here, where,
what was their background before they came to
College Station. Where did your mom and dad grow up
and where did your dad go to school? Well, what we
call the Scotes, the United States Scotes family
came was brought to Milwaukee, Wisconsin
by his—by
a cousin of
The
Scopes family was brought to Milwaukee by a 50-ton
boat from Ramsgate, England across the Atlantic
to the St. Lawrence River, down the St. Lawrence
River, to the canal up in the lakes, and to
Milwaukee. He brought the entire family of
Richard William Scotes, who was born in 1818. And
they were Englishman from Ramsgate, England,
which is on the mouth of the Thames River. And they
were brought here by Francis, Samuel Francis
Coates, who was a seaman, had that 50-ton boat.
They also brought the family of Sophie, which was
William Scote's
wife, and they, that family, that man was a tailor,
and they lived right downtown in what is now
Milwaukee. And your dad was born when? He was born
in This
is all the family they brought. See, another thing
on this thing here. This line number It starts off
with an S for Scotes. Then it'll turn to a numeral.
And then it'll turn back to a letter. Because the
Scotes family, Richard, he had a Richard William
and a William Richard and a William Richard and so
on down the line. But your dad grew up in Milwaukee?
No, he grew up in Crown Point. Where? Crown Point,
Indiana. How do you spell Crown Point? Crown
Point. Oh, Crown Point. Crown Point. Yes, Crown
Point. And what did his father do for a living? He
was a witcher.
And then... He was one... He was...
His
father was named William Richard Schoes. He was
born on December the 17th,
1852, in Ramsgate, England. So that's your
grandfather? That, yeah, that's my grandfather.
No, my great-grandfather. Oh. Yeah, it's dad's
father. Oh, yeah. And they, they were at Richard
William. How big was Crown, was Crown Point? It was
a pretty good-sized town. It was, it's about 50
miles south of the end of Lake Michigan.
It's right up there. Up in northern Indiana. Yeah,
northwestern Indiana. And your dad went to public
school there? Well, he married Emmeline Townsend
Coffin. No, he, yeah. Is that your dad or your
grandfather? That's my dad. Your dad. No, no,
that's, that's his, that's his father. Okay.
William Richard Scotes. His father married an
Emmeline Townsend Coughlin. We called her
grandmother. That's the way we knew her. And she
was married to a Coughlin, Scotes. She was married
later to a Charles W. King in 1889
and later was married to a Thomas Kearney, 1892.
But, and she lost one boy, the oldest boy, Harry,
who died of gangrene.
Stuck a pair of scissors in his leg. So your dad went
to school there in Crown Point? Only to the fourth
grade.
And then he traveled with
The Tierneys were in New
Hampshire, Concord, New Hampshire. That's your
father with the Tierneys? Yeah,
my grandmother married a Tierney, so there's a
half-brother. call him Harry William Scotes. He
had his name changed from Tierney to Scotes. And so
they, they landed, they
moved out of
Milwaukee to a little town called Oak Creek, which
is in the south, south part of, uh, Milwaukee
County. And through the years there was always a, a
clan of somebody that was skinned to us in that
town. And that's where, uh,
well, wait a minute. The reason the Scots had
gotten mixed up in it was that, um, Grandmother
Schultz was a very opinionated woman and took care
of a lot of people. Matter of fact, she was the first
woman that ever had a,
what do you call it, an expensive drug pharmacist?
She was the first woman that ever had a father in the
state of Illinois, Indiana.
And she had a
younger sister that was,
she had a younger sister that was very sickly. and
she would come up from Crown Point to this little
town of Goat Creek and to tend to her sister and
that's where she married, that's where she met the
Scotes family. So that's the joining of the The
Coffin and the Scotes family was through that.
They
lived there about a year, and then they all moved
back to Clown Point. But my father never, Daniel
Scotes never went beyond the fourth grade. And
then what did he do for a living, your dad? well he
was a kid and i don't know what he did there for a
living uh oh he had to attend
the grandmother had married this uh dr charles
king
and he was a doctor and dad had to take care of the
horses and the carriages for him
So they finally moved to
New Hampshire.
What was the big town? Manchester.
They finally moved up there. And then Thomas
Tierney left them. In 1900, he left my grandmother
and her children. I see there's Daniel, there's
Richard, and Bessie, and Harry. Four of them. Left
them destitute in Manchester.
I mean destitute. And so a woman, Townsend, See,
Grandmother was related to the Coffins and the
Townsends out of Maine, and one of them came, she
was living in Boston, and she arranged one to move
down to what they called South Boston. Okay. In
the, and was, and that's where the stayed for a
while and in 1900 uh grandmother farmed her
children out
to her uh
her family she was a she was a coffin one of So who did
your dad get farmed out to? Her brother. He had a
farm at Scott City, Kansas. He was sent there.
1900. Where is Scott City? It's in the western half
of it. They raised horses. Way out on the prairie.
And Joe, your dad would have been about what age
then? Seventeen. Okay. and so they
he was out there in 1900 and they raised those
horses out there apparently most all sizes I mean
all breeds all breeds of horses they had some
Clydesdales out there they had the Morgans out
there and daddy daddy had to take them on the train
back to Connecticut where they sold them. He rode
the train with the horses. And that's what, and
people don't realize it now, that's what the
caboose was for. Did you know that? Caboose was to-
To haul animals? No, to haul people that cared for
them. Oh, oh, oh, on a freight train. On a freight
train. Caboose, we used to have them. function of
that was to haul the people that were on the train
that had something to do like carrying for horses
or carrying for ice and vegetables or fowl.
They shipped a lot of fowl in those days. were
shipped out of western Kansas. One of my uncles
told me that he killed 470 of those ducks at one
time. And shipped them to Kansas City. And how long
did your dad do that, work on the farm? I don't
know a great deal about what was there, other than
that, what I told you. But someone had helped him
with his schooling. At that point in time, I
understood it was
some school in Davenport, Iowa. I don't have any
other recollection of that. The next thing Dad did
was he went to Ames, Iowa, and He passed the
entrance examinations in 1906. To go to Iowa
State. Now, there's a gap there, see? I really
don't know a whole lot about it. He wasn't very,
very close with his mouth about that. But then he
went to Ames. He went three years as a civil
engineer. from 1906 to 1909, and in 1909 they
offered,
they brought, they brought Mr. Dr. Davison from
the University of Nebraska to Ames and formed the
Ag Engineering Department, and they gave they
asked him, they asked dad if he wanted to change to
ag engineering, he'd take this special course
that they had and he'd get a degree in ag
engineering, which he did. So he was more like a
civil than he was, but he, he, of course he had the
experience of being on that farm out there,
because that was a rough time out there then, even
then. Did he ever say what he was hoping to be
professionally when he got out of college? No, no.
He just took off and made his own. And then he was
offered a position as head of the Ag Engineering
Department at Mississippi State in 1910.
And my mother, who is...
Where did they meet? She was in Iowa State also. Oh,
okay. She went three years. In 1910, she stayed
out. And Ms. Mary Eleanor Lamb... She was raised
right out of Illinois, which is halfway between
Rockford and Freeport in the northern part of
Illinois, on a farm. She was raised on a farm, a big
farm. And so they married, and she went to... At
Thanksgiving time, she went down to... St. Louis,
and he went up to St. Louis, and they got married.
And so then he started his professional degree,
his professional from then on. Over at
Mississippi State? Yeah. And as the war came on,
Mississippi State, and also A&M right here, we had
to train kids to drive trucks, take care of trucks.
Was that part of his duty? That was part of his duty.
And they trained over there. And he got his
half-brother, Harry.
My grandmother couldn't control his
half-brother. And so he sent him to
Dan Scotes and Albert Lamb at the University
of Mississippi.
Mississippi State. Mississippi State. What's
the name of that town? Starkville. Starkville.
And he turned, Harry turned into a good mechanic.
And he was the one that helped Dan with the training
of all those soldiers.
But what happened was that the governor of
Mississippi would take it upon himself when some
man would make
something he didn't like, and they'd go up there
and fire him. And Dad didn't like that political
end of it. And so he was offered the job here at A&M.
In 1919. Do you have any idea what pay he got when he
came? 1900. 1900 for 12 months? there was
something about that. So he evidently knew that
quite a while because he went to, when we were, we
normally went to Mother's Place in Illinois
during the summertime and they had some time off
and we'd normally go up there and
In 1919, he went to the factory for a Huffmobile and
bought a big sedan. Not a sedan, no, a touring car. A
big touring car. That was a fancy car. Yeah, yeah. A
great big devil. So when we—when they— He finished
his duties at Starkville, and we all boarded that
car. Not only did we bring—we had five of us, you
know. We had Dad, Mama, and three children. We had
another family, Martin, that had a man, his wife,
and a little boy. Were all of you in the Hupmobile?
We were all in the Hupmobile. And you drove it from
Starkville? We drove it from Starkville, and we
got to Baton Rouge. And we started across, that day
we started across west out of Baton Rouge. And
about late in the afternoon, And the roads were
getting awful terrible, just plumb terrible. And
so he,
lo and behold, on the north side of the road, this
plantation appeared,
just like the movies have it. There was a road going
up there, and there were trees on both sides, and a
big old house sitting back in the back end of it.
That's what it looked like. And so we stopped, and
we drove up in there, and he said we could go ask
about the road ahead and so forth. And the lady
greeted him and said, you're not going anywhere.
You're staying here tonight.
like a bed and breakfast, they put all of us up in
that big old house. And we stayed there. And the
next day, we drove back to
Baton Rouge. And then we had to stay in Baton Rouge
one day, because Dad had to make arrangements to
ship that car to Houston. There were no transport
across that. No bridge across the river. No, just
no road at all. And that storm, I think it's the
storm of 1919 out of Corpus, hurt him and put enough
water in there. Because when we boarded that
train, we were up there, and I can see it yet. That's
just a continuous storm. built up with none but
railroad tracks on it all the way down, just as far
as you could see. Now you were five years, this
1919? Six years old. Well I just went on and on. And
so we got to Houston and then we got some train
tickets and came on up here. So the car was shipped
all the way here? No, it was shipped to Houston. To
Houston, okay. And later we went. Oh, later you got
it. Later we obtained it. It wasn't a special trip
down there to obtain it. And the road between here
and Houston wasn't anything to take. As a matter of
fact, there were only three pieces of pavement in
this county. Really? Where were they? Well, if you
want, there was north of Main Street and Bryan was
paved. There was a road from, from Bryan to the
college, paved, just like it is. Was it Old College
Road? Old College Road. And you'd come up there and
get next to the railroad and go down there to Boyd's
Corner. That was called Boyd's Corner, and then
you went back up to Northgate, and you could enter
the college. One went straight on. It never
existed. Where was the third one, the third
pavement? It was in a mile of track, a mile of
concrete across the bow. It was right there where
you get ready to cross the Navasota. Oh, oh, oh.
down south yeah when you went in you came off the
came off this and you went down into the bog because
now the old highway is on the west side was the west
side following the railroad yeah uh almost to
navasota well yeah yeah Yeah, you had to cross
there right there before you got to the river.
There was a bridge on the river, but it was on the
east side. So you had to crawl up over the top of the
tracks and cross the track and keep on going. You
went to Navasota, you didn't go to the new route. So
that's where that came in. And there were three
paces of pavement, and that was it. All right,
describe... the campus as you earliest remember
it. What was it like when you... Well, it was just a
square piece of property like this. You had, you
came into it at Boyd's Corner, which is a, which is
an underpass now. Mm-hmm. Boyette's. Mm-hmm.
That's the University Drive. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Used
to have to climb all the crime. You had to climb On
that railroad, you'd have to
climb 20, 25 feet up an incline to go over the
railroad. So it was hard to drive a wagon across it?
Hard to drive anything. But it was there. And so
that road was a gravel road. There were no
pavements, I remember. It went to the corner on
where Texas is now. That was gravel. There was a
gravel road that went down Texas to the Shiloh.
That was a fraternal club and a church. And they had
a cemetery, which is now called the State
Cemetery. Was there a road on the south side of the
campus? No. Where Jersey Street used to be? No,
there were not. And east of what is now Texas Avenue
was just open land, wasn't it? It was just open
land. There was no road there, except for this one
gravel road down the property line on the east side
of it. That was the only place there was to go. All
right, and what buildings were there on the campus
that were most noticeable? Main building. All of
the, the entire thing faced the railroad. So the
academic building was here at that time. With a
door.
From there west, it was just about.